disk algorithms
this project simulate algoritms like SSTF, FCFS, SCAN, C-SCAN, LOOK, C-LOOK

:heavy_plus_sign:FCFS is the simplest disk scheduling algorithm. As the name suggests, this algorithm entertains requests in the order they arrive in the disk queue. The algorithm looks very fair and there is no starvation (all requests are serviced sequentially) but generally, it does not provide the fastest service.

:heavy_plus_sign:SSTF Shortest seek time first (SSTF) algorithm selects the disk I/O request which requires the least disk arm movement from its current position regardless of the direction. It reduces the total seek time as compared to FCFS.

:heavy_plus_sign:SCAN In SCAN disk scheduling algorithm, head starts from one end of the disk and moves towards the other end, servicing requests in between one by one and reach the other end. Then the direction of the head is reversed and the process continues as head continuously scan back and forth to access the disk. So, this algorithm works as an elevator and hence also known as the elevator algorithm. As a result, the requests at the midrange are serviced more and those arriving behind the disk arm will have to wait.

:heavy_plus_sign:C-SCAN Circular SCAN (C-SCAN) scheduling algorithm is a modified version of SCAN disk scheduling algorithm that deals with the inefficiency of SCAN algorithm by servicing the requests more uniformly. Like SCAN (Elevator Algorithm) C-SCAN moves the head from one end servicing all the requests to the other end. However, as soon as the head reaches the other end, it immediately returns to the beginning of the disk without servicing any requests on the return trip (see chart below) and starts servicing again once reaches the beginning. This is also known as the “Circular Elevator Algorithm” as it essentially treats the cylinders as a circular list that wraps around from the final cylinder to the first one.

:heavy_plus_sign:LOOK LOOK is the advanced version of SCAN (elevator) disk scheduling algorithm which gives slightly better seek time than any other algorithm in the hierarchy. The LOOK algorithm services request similarly as SCAN algorithm meanwhile it also “looks” ahead as if there are more tracks that are needed to be serviced in the same direction. If there are no pending requests in the moving direction the head reverses the direction and start servicing requests in the opposite direction.
The main reason behind the better performance of LOOK algorithm in comparison to SCAN is because in this algorithm the head is not allowed to move till the end of the disk.

:heavy_plus_sign:C-LOOK C-LOOK is an enhanced version of both SCAN as well as LOOK disk scheduling algorithms. This algorithm also uses the idea of wrapping the tracks as a circular cylinder as C-SCAN algorithm but the seek time is better than C-SCAN algorithm. We know that C-SCAN is used to avoid starvation and services all the requests more uniformly, the same goes for C-LOOK. In this algorithm, the head services requests only in one direction(either left or right) until all the requests in this direction are not serviced and then jumps back to the farthest request on the other direction and service the remaining requests which gives a better uniform servicing as well as avoids wasting seek time for going till the end of the disk.
